siminos/xiong/thesis/proposal/00ReadMe.txt $Author: predrag $
$Date: 2021-06-22 07:16:06 -0400 (Tue, 22 Jun 2021) $
-----------------------------------------------------------------

Xiong Ding thesis proposal
========================

Andrew Zangwill May 13,2014

This summer, some of our PhD students will be completing their
third year of graduate studies at the School. This means that their
Thesis Proposal is due before the beginning of the Fall 2014
semester. Please see

 http://www.physics.gatech.edu/content/graduate-handbook

for the details. Briefly, the steps are:

1. Student and supervisor choose a Committee (supervisor plus as
least two other GT faculty members).

2. Student writes and distributes to each committee member a
15-page Thesis Proposal which reviews the literature, outlines the
research that has been accomplished, and outlines the research that
remains to be done.

3. Soon after step 2, the student makes a 20-minute oral
presentation to the Committee.

4. The Committee should use the discussion time following the oral
presentation to help the student and advisor identify any problems
or mid-course corrections that will help lead to the successful
completion of the thesis work.

5. Before adjourning, the student should give to each Committee
member the attached one-page assessment form. One Committee member
(NOT the student and NOT the supervisor) should collect the
completed forms and return these to the Associate Chair for
Graduate Affairs.

6. Upon receiving the completed assessment forms, the Associate
Chair informs the GT Graduate Office that the student has completed
the Thesis Proposal process.

7. Note: by the end of the third summer, the student must also have
completed a course in English writing offered by either CETL or the
Language Institute.

8. Students and advisors may choose to schedule periodic follow-up
meetings with their Committee as they see fit. No notification of
these meetings to the School or Associate Chair is needed.


-----------------------------------------------------------------
HISTORY:

-----------------------------------------------------------------
FIXED:

-- made
