                                                     7 Mar 2009

Author responses to Referee #1 (Remarks to the Author):
    "State space geometry of a spatio-temporally
    chaotic Kuramoto-Sivashinsky flow,"
      P Cvitanovic, RL Davidchack, and E Siminos
submitted to SIAM Journal on Applied Dynamical Systems

(The review is given in full with author responses listed in
parenthetical comments)

Referee #1:
This paper was an enjoyable read, and it advances the body of
knowledge in the understanding of turbulent behavior. It
sharpens the understanding of the relationship between the
periodic orbit structure and the spatiotemporal chaos. In
particular, the role of symmetry induced heteroclinic
connections is well explained. The authors are very
straightforward in noting that their analysis of K-S flow
with L=22 lacks the strong connection to true physical
problems, it is easy to see that the arguments should apply
to more standard problems of actual fluid flow. The
visualization techniques are both novel and useful. Some
readers might object to including the appendix material in
that it is no real push beyond state of the art techniques.
However, I find it very useful when the authors include a
full explanation rather than forcing me to look someplace
else. Because of the electronic format, I see no reason to
ask that it be shortened.

The area remains a very active and important field. Likely,
some readers will object to not being in the list of works
cited but the work is adequately cited. If revised, the
authors might consider using phrases like ``among others' in
referring to cited research, but only as a means of ensuring
that a reader is not put off by not being mentioned.


===========================================================
rpo_ks/SIADS/reviews/response1.1.txt
$Author: predrag $ $Date: 2009-04-07 07:10:34 -0400 (Tue, 07 Apr 2009) $
