Referee #2 report:
    ‘State space geometry of a spatio-temporally
     chaotic Kuramoto-Sivashinsky flow’
        by P Cvitanovic, RL Davidchak and E Siminos
    submitted to SIAM J. Appl. Dyn. Syst.

The present manuscript concerns the Kuramoto-Sivashinsky (KS)
equation, a model equation for complex dynamics in a
deterministic PDE. There is already an extensive literature
on this PDE, much of which discusses the apparently
low-dimensional dynamical behavior and bifurcations displayed
for relatively small system size L; while for large L this
PDE is a much-studied example of spatio-temporal (extensive)
chaos. The work under review is part of an ongoing program of
the first author (Cvitanovic) and his collaborators, dating
back to Christiansen et al. (Ref. [3]), to identify
(unstable) equilibria and periodic orbits, and to
characterize chaotic and turbulent behavior as a "walk
through the space of unstable patterns." A particular goal of
this program has been the extension of periodic orbit (cycle)
theory to infinite-dimensional dynamical systems (PDEs), to
allow the computation of long-time averages of the chaotic
dynamics via cycle expansions: appropriately ordered and
weighted sums over periodic orbits; progress has included the
development of algorithms to determine (a large number of)
unstable periodic orbits and their properties.

While previous related work on the KS equation (Refs. [3, 22,
23]) was restricted to the subspace of odd solutions, which
imposes strong constraints on the dynamics, in the manuscript
under review this restriction has been lifted. Consequently,
the system being studied has continuous as well as discrete
symmetries, and a focus of this work is to study the effect
of the continuous symmetries which permit, in addition to
fixed points and periodic orbits, also relative equilibria and
periodic orbits. The authors discuss symmetries and some
associated dynamically significant invariant subspaces,
identify and study equilibria and relative equilibria, and in
particular compute many relative periodic orbits. They find
interesting (but previously known) heteroclinic connections
between some of the equilibria, and give examples of unstable
(relative) periodic orbits which appear to resemble (in some
representations) and yield similar averages to the observed
chaotic dynamics.

The vision that "equilibria, relative equilibria, periodic
orbits and relative periodic orbits . . . form the repertoire
of recurrent spatio-temporal patterns explored by turbulent
dynamics" (p.22) is very appealing, but, in the light of the
comments and concerns discussed below, unfortunately I do not
feel that this manuscript yet provides sufficient evidence to
support this conclusion. Thus, while I feel that this general
research direction has much promise, I do not feel that I can
recommend publication of this manuscript as it stands.

Some detailed comments:
=======================

Turbulence/Spatiotemporal Chaos/Chaos A stated motivation for
the present work is the understanding of the dynamics of
turbulence; and the authors, following numerous precedents
(for instance Ref. [16]), study the KS equation as a simpler
model equation displaying some features relevant to turbulent
flows. However, the authors fail to emphasize the signi.cant
differences between their model system and fully-fledged
turbulence, or even spatiotemporal chaos (which has sometimes
been labelled “weak turbulence” — see for instance the book
by Manneville (1990)).

On p.2 of this manuscript, it is stated that the terms
“turbulence” and “spatiotemporal chaos” are used
interchangeably; and both terms are used to describe to the
dynamics of the L = 22 KS equation studied in this manuscript
— L = 22 is claimed to be “the smallest system size for which
KS empirically exhibits ‘sustained turbulence’ ” (p.21). This
seems to me not in accord with generally accepted usage:
turbulent states (associated usually with fluid dynamics) are
characterized by a range of scales and an energy cascade;
spatiotemporal chaos (STC) refers to (large) extended systems
with chaotic behavior characterized by a decay of spatial
correlations, in which the attractor dimension and number of
positive Lyapunov exponents diverges with system size L (see
for instance Cross & Hohenberg, Rev. Mod. Phys. 65, 851
(1993)). (My understanding is that to have STC, it is not
sufficient merely to have chaotic temporal dynamics occurring
in a PDE or other system with spatial dependence.) For the KS
equation in the present scaling, STC occurs (roughly) for L>
50 - 60.

For the system size considered in the present manuscript, L =
22, on the other hand, the chaotic dynamics are
low-dimensional, with a single positive Lyapunov exponent
(p.10); there is no wide range of scales involved, nor decay
of spatial correlations, and the system is not nearly in the
extensively chaotic regime. Indeed, if one chooses slightly
larger L, say L = 25, the KS dynamics are again attracted to
a stable tri-modal equilibrium; and as shown for instance by
Hyman, Nicolaenko & Zaleski, Physica D 23, 265 (1986), there
is a sequence of several more attracting fixed points,
periodic and traveling wave solutions interspersed with
chaotic behavior before the extensively chaotic regime is
attained (L = 22 corresponds to a slightly larger than 49 in
the scaling of Hyman et al.; see Fig. 1b of that paper).

In fact, it is proved (not “expected”, as on p.10) that there
is a finite-dimensional inertial manifold (see Ref. [9]; an
upper bound on the dimension is given, for instance, in
Jolly, Rosa & Temam, Adv. Di.. Eqns. 5, 31 (2000)), which
indicates that the dynamics are rigorously low-dimensional.

While the chaotic dynamics of such a relatively small KS
system are of interest in their own right, I thus feel it is
inappropriate to label this as “turbulent” or even
“spatiotemporally chaotic” behavior, especially as for
slightly larger L the chaotic dynamics disappear again. (For
these reasons I also feel that the use of “spatio-temporally
chaotic” in the title of this manuscript is incorrect.)
Instead, I agree with the statement on p.22 that “much of the
observed dynamics is specific to this unphysical, externally
imposed periodicity. What needs to be understood is the
nature of the equilibrium and relative periodic orbit
solutions in the L -> limit ...”.

On a related point: as motivation for the investigations of
this manuscript, Fig. 2.1 of the present manuscript shows a
typical spatiotemporally chaotic (not “turbulent”) solution
of the KS equation for L ˜ 89; however, this is for a much
larger system than the L = 22 system studied in this work. I
feel that (instead of or in addition to Fig. 2.1) a
representation of a “typical” chaotic solution for L = 22
should be shown, to facilitate comparison with trajectories
such as those of the relative periodic orbits of Fig. 6.1.

	
Relative Periodic Orbits and Symmetries
=======================================

In addition to the works cited (Refs. [14,20]), there is an
extensive literature on equilibria, periodic orbits, and
related solutions for the KS equation; thus I feel that more
references to prior work, placing the investigations of this
manuscript in the context of existing results on the
dynamics, symmetries, geometry and bifurcations of small-L KS
equations, would have been appropriate, especially to help
clarify the contributions of the present work. For instance,
the relevance of the O(2) symmetries to the presence of
heteroclinic orbits, and their importance in the overall
dynamics, was first discussed by Armbruster, Guckenheimer &
Holmes (Physica D 29, 257 (1988), SIAM J. Appl. Math. 49, 676
(1989); see also Refs. [16,20]); there is not much discussion
of discrete symmetries other than D2 in the work under
review.

Of particular interest in the present work are the relative
periodic orbits, satisfying u(x, t)= u(x + .p,t + Tp); these
are also known as modulated traveling waves (MTWs). These
were studied, for instance, by Armbruster et al. (1988,1989),
and a detailed computation of numerous bifurcation branches
of these solutions was presented by Brown & Kevrekidis (in
Pattern Formation: Symmetry Methods and Applications, AMS,
pp.45–66 (1996)); it would be of interest to know how the
MTWs (relative periodic orbits) computed by the present
authors for L = 22 fit into the complicated bifurcation
structure discussed by Brown & Kevrekidis, as this might help
in understanding them better.

In the manuscript under review, a large number of relative
periodic orbits (MTWs) is computed for L = 22; however, the
discussions concerning these MTWs and their dynamical
significance (potentially the main contribution of this work)
feel to me to be somewhat incomplete. For instance, a
particular (“typical” — p.20) MTW with Tp ˜ 32.8 is selected
(Fig. 6.2(b)) which appears in the representations of Fig.
8.1 to be not too dissimilar from the chaotic (not
“turbulent”) flow. However, it is not fully discussed how
generic this observation is: how was this orbit selected?
What behavior would the other relative periodic orbits
display? Is there a way to organize the relative periodic
orbits, or to compute suitable averages over them?
(I realize that much of this is the subject of ongoing
research.)

Representation of Solutions
===========================

One of the stated main results of the present work is the
visualization of the dynamics through “projections onto
dynamically invariant, PDE-discretization independent state
space coordinate frames”, as well as through “physical,
symmetry invariant observables, such as ‘energy’, dissipation
rate, etc.” (p.2).

While it is apparent that eigenvectors of the equilibria
E1,E2 and E3 are dynamically invariant and relevant, it is
not clearly discussed by the authors in which ways a
visualization through projection onto these eigenvectors
might have advantages compared to other previously-used
approaches using, say, Fourier mode amplitudes. Indeed, a
representation of the dynamics using, say, Fourier modes is
quite independent of the discretization (finite difference,
Galerkin, pseudo-spectral etc.) used for numerical
integration of the PDE; and one could argue that Fourier
modes (which are eigenvectors of the linearization about the
trivial equilibrium E0) are as dynamically relevant as
eigenvectors of the other equilibria.

If one is to follow the authors’ suggestion to choose a
representation using dynamical invariants, how does one
choose a suitable set of axes? The authors do not seem to
motivate, for instance, their choices of the stable
eigenmodes Re e(6) in Figs. 5.4 and 5.5, e(7) in Fig. 5.6 and
e(4) in Fig. 5.8; other, apparently equally reasonable
choices could have been made. Furthermore, their chosen
representations vary from figure to figure, making comparisons
between different figures difficult, as they contain
eigenvectors of different equilibria. For instance (although
this is not clearly discussed in the manuscript), the e(1) of
Figs. 5.4, 5.6 and 5.8 are all different, being the first
unstable eigenmode of equilibria E1,E2 and E3 respectively.

It is also worthwhile to note that various authors (for
instance Osinga) have already described three-dimensional
visualizations of invariant manifolds. For the case of the KS
equation, Johnson, Jolly & Kevrekidis, Int. J. Bifur. Chaos
11, 1 (2001), demonstrate an interesting global bifurcation
through visualization of changes in the geometry of the
invariant manifolds.

Energy

As for the eigenmodes discussed previously, it is not really
explained why projection onto axes of the
(symmetry-invariant) energy, production and dissipation rates
might be preferable to other means for visualizing solutions.
(Note that in terms of the usual L2 norm, these quantities
defined on p.9 are merely E = .u.2/2L, P = .ux.2/L, D =
.uxx.2/L.) Indeed, I would expect that for spatially extended
spatiotemporally chaotic or turbulent systems, much of the
energy transfer would be localized in space, and could
thereby not be captured by these spatially averaged measures.
On the other hand, in the presence of su.cient spatial
decorrelation (so that in the large-L limit, time averages of
the chaotic dynamics may be approximated by spatial
averages), I would expect as L increases, the difference
between E(t), P (t) and D(t) and their time-averaged values
would decrease, so that for larger L,a projection of solution
trajectories onto E-P -D axes would become increasingly less
useful.

Some smaller points include:

1.	Page 3: There is a brief discussion here on the lack of
structural stability with respect to truncation N, but I
found little further indication in the remainder of the
manuscript as to whether such sensitivity to N was indeed
observed, or how the computed results were determined to be
robust.

2.	Page 6: A clarification of the use of the term “GLMRT
equilibrium” for E1 might be helpful.

3.	
Page 9: The first line of equation (3.8) should read

E.= .utu. = - .. u 2/2+ ux + uxxx . x u . .

4.	Page 10: In terms of the definition (3.6) for E in this
manuscript, the best current bound (Refs. [1,12]) on
\limit_{t\to\infty} as a function of L scales as E \approx
L^2, not \approx L^{3/2} .

5.	Page 12: The last column of Table 5.1, for t1/4En
Symmetry, follows completely from the second-to-last column
(under the exchange U+ U(1)), and thus seems redundant.

Why do many, but not all, of the eigenvalues of E3 come in
pairs?

Are the eigenvalues of TW±1 and TW±2 plotted in Fig. 5.2, as
indicated in the text?

6.	Page 13: While I was able to compute the values of T for
E1 and E2 in Table 5.2 according to the prescription of p.12,
I do not understand how T ~ 10.71 as the characteristic time
scale for E3 was computed.

There is considerable discussion of the dynamical relevance
of the unstable manifolds of the equilibria, but appears to
be none concerning the relative equilibria (traveling waves)
shown in Fig. 5.3; can anything be said regarding their
influence on the dynamics?

7.	Page 15: I found no reference to Figure 5.7 in the text.
In the caption of Fig. 5.6: the eigenvector e(7) for E2 seems
to be complex (see Table 5.1), so surely one needs to choose
either Re e(7) or Im e(7)? In the paragraph below Fig. 5.6:
Not all orbits within the unstable manifold of E2 converge to
t1/4 E2, since there is a trajectory approaching E3.

8.	Page 16: Some more discussion in the text with
computational details concerning how the search for relative
periodic orbits was performed, or stronger references to the
Appendices, might be useful in Section 6.

9.	Appendices: The motivation for including these appendices
should be made clearer; could it have been sufficient just to
cite Refs. [18, 24] and other references for the algorithms?
(Note that Brown & Kevrekidis (1996) also give an algorithm
for computing MTWs (relative periodic orbits)). It was also
not clear to me whether the Levenberg-Marquardt search of
App. C or the Newton shooting method of App. D was used for
these computations. It would be helpful to have an indication
of how these two methods compare, and which might be
preferable.

Some care might be taken with notation. For instance, ap in
(C.1) refers to a vector of N - 2 Fourier modes, while ak in
(2.2), p.3 is an individual Fourier mode, and a0 near the
bottom of p.24 is a starting guess (is a0 = a(1) in (C.2)?).

The definitions of $a, T$ and $\ell$ could have been written
in App. C, rather than just being given at the beginning of
App.D.

===========================================================
rpo_ks/SIADS/reviews/review2.txt
$Author: predrag $ $Date: 2009-04-07 08:48:38 -0400 (Tue, 07 Apr 2009) $
