rpo_ks/SIADS/REVIEW/review1.txt
$Author: predrag $ $Date: 2008-03-03 12:04:50 -0500 (Mon, 03 Mar 2008) $
===========================================================
                    started writing: Predrag March 1 2008

Dear Dr. Siminos, 

Your manuscript, "State space geometry of a spatio-temporally chaotic 
Kuramoto-Sivashinsky flow," has completed this round of review and 
cannot be accepted for publication at this time. Revisions are required.

I apologize for the length of time it took to get through this first 
round, but the referees have both written detailed reports. As you will 
see, one of the referees is very positive about the paper, while the 
other raises a number of significant issues. I encourage you to read the 
referee reports, which are attached, and revise the paper following the 
suggestions outlined. 

When you are ready to submit your revision, you can use the link below. 
 
<http://siads.siam.org/cgi-bin/main.plex?el=A4B7Gpv7A1Qkp6I2A9knPBsEa6ovEBWfbxPvhUAZ> 
 
 
 
Please include a response to the reviewers' comments with your revision. 

If you do not intend to submit a revised version of your paper, please 
let me know by return email (with a cc: to siads@siam.org). Otherwise, 
we ask that you complete your revision within 6 months. Also, please 
tell us if you will require more time. 
 
Dwight Barkley 
Associate Editor 
SIAM Journal on Applied Dynamical Systems 
 
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
Referee #1 (Remarks to the Author): 

This paper was an enjoyable read, and it advances the body of knowledge 
in the understanding of turbulent behavior. It sharpens the 
understanding of the relationship between the periodic orbit structure 
and the spatiotemporal chaos. In particular, the role of symmetry 
induced heteroclinic connections is well explained. The authors are very 
straightforward in noting that their analysis of K-S flow with L=22 lacks 
the strong connection to true physical problems, it is easy to see that 
the arguments should apply to more standard problems of actual fluid 
flow. The visualization techniques are both novel and useful. Some 
readers might object to including the appendix material in that it is no 
real push beyond state of the art techniques. However, I find it very 
useful when the authors include a full explanation rather than forcing 
me to look someplace else. Because of the electronic format, I see no 
reason to ask that it be shortened. 

The area remains a very active and important field. Likely, some readers 
will object to not being in the list of works cited but the work is 
adequately cited. If revised, the authors might consider using phrases 
like ``among others' in referring to cited research, but only as a means 
of ensuring that a reader is not put off by not being mentioned. 


Referee #2 (Remarks to the Author): 

See attached PDF file
