siminos/schur/SIAM-v2/referees.txt
$Author: predrag $
$Date: 2016-03-05 21:17:58 -0500 (Sat, 05 Mar 2016) $
===========================================================

all remarks refer to DingCvit14-v2.pdf

Referee #1 (Remarks to the Author):

In the submitted contribution, the authors propose an accurate
method to compute Floquet multipliers and vectors of periodic
orbits in spatially extended systems. The method is scientifically
sound, clearly explained, and compared with existing methods. The
authors also evaluate its computational cost and applied it to the
Kuramoto-Sivashinsky equation. Because the periodic orbits play
important roles in various respects for understanding dynamical
systems, the proposed method can make a good contribution to the
research field. Overall, the paper is well written, except for a
number of points that I remark in the following. Supposing these
comments are sufficiently taken into account (or the authors give
convincing counterarguments), I would recommend publication of the
manuscript.

1. Somehow the authors sporadically mention the inertial manifold,
entangled modes, etc, even in the abstract, though they are not
studied in the submitted paper. They even make claims on these
concepts ("it is a good indicator of existence of a finite
dimensional inertial manifold", "The 8 leading exponents correspond
to the entangled modes...") without showing any supporting data. I
appreciate this application as a motivation of the presented study,
but the authors should restrict the content of the paper to what
the paper really deals with.

2. The last paragraph of section 2.4 and figure 2 are
incomprehensible, at least at that point, until readers find much
clearer explanations in the subsequent sections. The authors should
explain what the figure represents and avoid using undefined
technical terms, especially if they wish to make the paper
physicist-friendly, as they suggest in the manuscript.

3. Right after equation (3.3), the author describes that "$R_m$ is
quasi-upper triangular ... and the remaining $R_i$ ... are upper
triangular". Is this an assumption or a consequence of other
assumptions? If the latter is the case, what makes the step k=m
special? If it is an assumption, it seems to me that the iteration
method will not give the same series of $R_i$ as defined here, but
only the product of $R_i$ agrees, because the effect of rotation
for complex conjugate pairs will be distributed to all $m$ time
intervals. Anyhow it is not clear whether the statement is an
assumption or a consequence.

4. At the beginning of section 5.2, the authors state that the
eigenvectors of $R^{(k)}$ cannot be obtained at the same time by
the iteration method. This is misleading because one does not
compute those eigenvalues by using equation (3.5) nor by repeating
the whole iteration process for each $k$, but the results for all
$k$ are naturally obtained during the iteration process needed for
a single $k$. No additional task is required. A similar misleading
statement can be found at the bottom of p.13.

5. In section 6, when the authors evaluate computational cost of
each step of each method, they should refer to specific equations
and/or descriptions in the previous sections. Otherwise it is
ambiguous how the authors obtained the presented evaluations,
because there are too many different stages and methods.

6. Major typos: First, "real part", located for example three lines
above equation (2.2), should be the modulus. The authors made the
same error a few times (while it is also used correctly at other
places), so they should check all the "real parts" that appear in
the manuscript. Secondly, at the beginning of section 2.2, the
indices used for the contracting directions (variables with
superscript "-") are inconsistent: if $V^-_i = U^-_s + U^-_{s-1} +
... + U^-_{s-i+1}$ as defined in the text, the authors should index
$\lambda^-_i$ so as to satisfy $\lambda^+_i = -\lambda^-_i =
\lambda_i$. Finally, I guess $v_i$ in section 4 should be replaced
with $e_i$ (anyhow $v_i$ is not defined in that section). There are
also not a few minor typos, such as "figure figure 1".

7. Reference: at some places Ginelli et al.'s paper [15] which
first presented the covariant vector method is missing and should
be cited: for example in p.1 and p.4 where this method is
introduced. In addition, citing the book [37] at the end of the
first paragraph of section 4 is bizarre, because this book was
published before Ginelli's method was invented.


Referee #2 (Remarks to the Author):

The authors introduce a new algorithm to compute the full spectrum
of Floquet vectors over generic periodic orbits. In a sense, this
is a generalization of analogous algorithms (in particular the
dynamical one based on QR decomposition of Ginelli et al)
introduced for the computation of covariant Lyapunov vectors
(Oseledets splitting) over ergodic orbits of chaotic systems. This
new method, adapted to periodic orbits, is based on a clever
reordering of periodic Schur decomoposition. In particlulart, its
use allows one to resolve conjugate pairs of Floquet vectors that
can arise in periodic orbits. To the best of my knowledge, this
methods looks correct and efficient.

The method is then applied to the study of the periodic orbits
embedded in the chaotic attractor of the well-known
Kuramoto-Sivashinsky (KS) equation. This Floquet vector analysis
evidences a decomposition of the Floquet spectrum between a finite
number of "entangled modes" and a residual set of strongly
contracting residual modes. This confirms earlier results of
Takeuchi et al, where an analogous separation between "physical"
and "spurious" modes has been detected in the covariant Lyapunov
spectrum of the ergodic trajectories of the KS equation. This in an
interesting work from the technical point of view, while the
application to KS embedded unstable periodic orbits confirms that
information relevant to the ergodic attractor can be also extracted
by the analysis of the unstable periodic orbits embedded in it.
