Chaos: MS #12259CAT
"Cartography of high-dimensional flows:
 A visual guide to sections and slices"


Response to Reviewer #2
The review is reproduced in full with author responses marked by
'RESPONSE'. The new edits are marked blue in the attached atlasRefer.pdf.

Symmetries are an important element of physics and the reduction of
operators to symmetry invariant subspaces is a recognized core technical
tool of theoretical physics. The authors of the present paper argue that
more work is needed in the case of continuous symmetries in hydrodynamic
flows, a topic which they described as being in its infancy. They
summarize their view of the field with the present self-focussed
manuscript with lots of allegorical descriptions and few technical facts
to chew on. The authors describe their ideas in a coordinate free, group
theory based abstract setting, which they think advocates the strength of
their approach. However, I have my doubts that this will win the novice,
because (s)he is not given any clue how to actually implement it in the
prevailing ugly real-world coordinate system based descriptions. I can
certainly agree that improvements in the way continuous symmetries are
dealt with are needed, but I have my doubts that the style of
presentation in the present manuscript will help to improve the
situation. While this difference in pedagogical aspects should not be
taken as an argument against publication it explains why I cannot provide
a more substantial review of the manuscript. My remarks are few and most
of them are optional.

RESPONSE: Ouch.
----------------------------------------------------------------------

I described the manuscript as self-focussed because about one third of
the references are to the authors' work.

RESPONSE:
We feel referee's pain, having recently refereed a paper with 12
self-references out of 44 total, many of them misplacing the credit.
*   Now there are 9 self-references (from the list of 44) that authors
    deem essential to this paper. By comparison, our internal
    symmetry-reduction blog cites 306 references.
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The work seems to derive quite a bit of its motivation through recent
approaches to various hydrodynamical flows with continuous symmetries,
but most of the other contributions to these flows are missing from the
list of references. The opening paragraph reads as if no periodic orbits,
travelling waves, or other structures had been described in these flows
until the author's papers Ref 1 and 2. But there are lots of papers on
coherent structures, and even some in which relative periodic orbits are
calculated, as the authors know.

RESPONSE:
    This is a paper on continuous symmetry reduction necessary for
determination and organization of *relative* periodic orbits, not a paper
on fluid dynamics, travelling waves or periodic orbits (they need no
slicing). Gibson, Halcrow, and Cvitanovic (2008) were the first to
replace traditional (I,D) plots by the full, infinite-dimensional state
space visualizations, and Willis, Cvitanovic and Avila (2012) are the
first to construct the symmetry reduced infinite-dimensional state space
for full Navier-Stokes, the two essential tools for developing dynamical
theory of turbulence (at least, in minimal cells) that we attempt to make
digestible to everyman. Not all that allegorical - a class of graduate
students, some co-authors on this paper, has implemented these techniques
as problem sets, on systems ranging from 5 dimensions to 10^4-dimensional
baroclinic instability.
* paper now starts with references to
        - Faisst and Eckhardt (2003)
        - Wedin and Kerswell (2004)
        - Hof at al. (2004)
        - Kerswell (2005)
  (nothing to do with the subject of the paper, but certainly important
  as a motivation)
* now we cite all Navier-Stokes *relative* periodic orbits papers known
  to authors. Added
        - Viswanath (2007)
        - Duguet, Pringle and Kerswell (2008)
        - Mellibovsky and Eckhardt (2011)
  We would be very grateful for reference to any Navier-Stokes relative
  periodic orbits paper that we might have missed.
* added references to Gribov region in QFT
* removed
        - Christiansen, Cvitanovic and Putkaradze (1997)
        - Lan and Cvitanovic (2008)
        - Cvitanovic "Group Theory" (2008)
        - Cvitanovic and Grigoriev (2012)
        - Borrero-Echeverry, Schatz  and Cvitanovic (2012)
----------------------------------------------------------------------

I described the manuscript as allegorical because of figures like Fig 3:
what is drawn looks like loops in a pipe: are these simple states or
periodic orbits? Apparently, the idea is to take this object and to shift
and reflect it in order to indicate the symmetries. But this applies to
any state, not only to a periodic orbit. So should you not describe the
symmetries for the state, and omit the reference to the periodic orbit in
the caption?

RESPONSE: Thank you for bringing this up - this point sure did not get
across, and it is very important for understanding the physics of
relative solutions. There are no periodic orbits (1D loops) embedded in
the 3D physical turbulent fluid - (relative) periodic orbits reside in
the infinite-dimensional state space. We hope that the rewritten caption
is clearer.
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The absence of technical details is most striking in eq (4), where it is
not at all clear whether the components are real or complex, and what the
symmetry is without going back to the original paper. I'd rather have a
discussion of that than to be given the actual values for which it is
being simulated.

RESPONSE: Point well taken - the text is now revised, with the symmetry
transformation made explicit.
----------------------------------------------------------------------

At the end of section III, on page 5, a time-dependent symmetry operation
g(tau) that evolves together with the flow x(tau) is introduced. If you
actually do that as you go along, then the new object X(tau)=g(tau)x(tau)
will have a different equation of motion because of the dot g(tau) terms:
is that what you would like to do?

RESPONSE: Referee is correct - the symmetry-reduced state space equation
is written down in eq (8).
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The comments about norms after eq (1) are cryptic, in view of the fact
that in finite-dimensional state spaces all norms are (in the
mathematical sense) equivalent. So does the emphasis of the significance
of importance of the norm mean that different norms will give different
charts? If so, what happened to the ideal to obtain an abstract invariant
description of the flow?

RESPONSE: In our construction the norm must be symmetry group invariant,
in order that the notion of the point on a group orbit closest to the
template makes sense. So the set of allowable norms is severely
restricted; in the complex Lorenz system one can give different weights
to (x_1,x_2) vs (y_1,y_2) subspaces. For example, measuring distance
only in the (x_1,x_2) plane is OK, even though it gives a different chart
than measuring it in the (x_1,x_2,y_1,y_2) space (but we would not
recommend it).

We wish we could live up to "the ideal to obtain an abstract invariant
description of the flow". Actually everything in the paper and in the
classroom problem sets and projects is implemented in the prevailing ugly
real-world coordinate system based descriptions, which are hidden in the
formula for the vector dot product eq (1) over the (now eliminated)
`61,506' dimensions. Just as in the case of choosing Poincare sections,
the choice of templates for slice hyperplanes is a personal one.
----------------------------------------------------------------------

I do not understand the remarks about sections and strobing, at the end
of section II: isn't it obvious that a Poincare section is not a
projection? and is it not obvious that strobing is a Poincare section
with the section being defined by time taking certain values? I.e. in an
extended state space the two are equivalent, aren't they?

RESPONSE: We are not sure what the referee means by `extended' state
space - we are looking at autonomous flows, without external periodic
forcing, and the strobe is assumed to strobe at some regular time
interval. Our original discussion of Poincare sections, strobing, and
projections was motivated by the fact that:
(1) Our students often internally visualize a (d-1)-dimensional Poincare
section as one views a 3 dimensional world projected onto a 2-dimensional
photo (from one photo one cannot reconstruct the 3 dimensions), so that
remark was meant for them.
(2) Under our assumption (and perhaps that was not clear in the original
submission) that strobing is done at regular time intervals, strobing is
not equivalent to taking a Poincare section. Suppose you strobe a
periodic orbit of period $\pi$ seconds, once per second. What you get is
a set of points that ergodically fills out a 1-dimensional loop, whereas
*stationary* Poincare section is 0-dimensional.

However, we now realize that `strobing' remarks confuse rather than
aid the reader, and have removed them from the text.

---------------------------------------------------------------------
siminos/atlas/reviews/response1.2.txt
$Author: predrag $ $Date: 2012-07-22 11:22:08 -0400 (Sun, 22 Jul 2012) $
