Chaos: MS #12259CAT
"Cartography of high-dimensional flows:
 A visual guide to sections and slices"

Response to Reviewer #1
The review is reproduced in full with author responses marked by
'RESPONSE'. The new edits are marked blue in the attached atlasRefer.pdf.

This paper is mainly a review of some techniques for symmetry reduction
that are useful for high-dimensional systems. In particular, the authors
present a method of constraining to a subspace called a "slice," or a set
of such subspaces. The method itself is not new, having been used in the
authors' references 3-6, but this paper presents a nice overview and
several interesting examples.

RESPONSE: This paper does contain new material. We believe we are
familiar with the relevant literature (our internal symmetry-reduction
blog cites 306 references), but we are unaware of any
 (1) references in which the algorithm of constructing an atlas of the
     symmetry-reduced state space is described;
 (2) references in which the Poincare section border is defined,
     explained and computed;
 (3) references (including those co-authored by us) in which the ridge
     shared by a pair of charts is defined and constructed.

We have inserted a few not so self-effacing claims into the article:
    "While `charts' and 'atlases' are standard tools in geometry, the
    algorithm for explicit construction of a symmetry-reduced state
    space presented here is, to our knowledge, new."
    "Symmetry reduction of nonlinear flows is much trickier than the more
     familiar theory..."
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The English is satisfactory, although I find the informal style a bit
annoying at times. (For instance, on page 5, "Suppose your day job is
computing invariant solutions of the Navier-Stokes equations.")

RESPONSE: This paper originated in a series of lectures, and indeed
suffers from annoying excess of informality. The coauthors have toned
down much of that poetry in the resubmission.
    `your day job is computing' is now `you are computing a set of', etc.
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Critical technical points:
==========================

1. p2, "a better norm might be a distance between digitized images."
 Would such a norm satisfy the parallelogram law, and thus have an
 associated inner product? Does the chosen norm need to be induced from
 an inner product? I would think that it does, since orthogonality is
 used later (e.g., eq (2)).

RESPONSE: We are considering systems with SO(n) symmetry, which by
definition preserve squared length x^2, and we use the associated inner
product (quadratic Casimir) to define the slice hyperplanes. The
digitized images would have to have periodic BCs and the squared distance
between them would have to be SO(n) invariant, so the answer to all of
the above is "yes."
----------------------------------------------------------------------

2. p5, just before eq (7): It is claimed that <x' | Tx> vanishes
 because T is anti-symmetric. However, while this is true for SO(n) (the
 group mainly considered here), it is not true in general. For instance,
 it is not true for SE(2) as used in ref 4, or for scaling groups as used
 in ref 39. I believe the slice condition (7) should actually be an
 affine space, defined by the displayed equation before (7), although it
 does simplify to (7) in some special cases.

RESPONSE: You are correct on all points. As much of the intended audience
has had only rudimentary exposure to group theory (and prefers to keep it
that way), in this paper we do not even mention a 'Lie group', let alone
noncompact groups, scalings etc... We now emphasize in the text that
(7) is good only for SO(n).
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Minor points:
=============

1. p1, "it is possible to take a stroll through 61,506 dimensional
 state space..." Where does this number come from? Later (p3), other
 numbers are mentioned, such as a 61,504-dimensional section border of a
 61,505-dimensional slab, but no actual example seems to be considered
 with these dimensions, and it is not clear to me what system these
 numbers are referring to.

RESPONSE: The reference to 61,506 dimensions comes from our website,
ChaosBook.org/tutorials, because in our experience saying "50,000
dimensions" drives the point home, while "d high-dimensional" might be
interpreted as d=5. We have been using this as an iconic large number to
indicate that a direct numerical simulation of turbulence requires
solving a very large number of ODE's. We have now replaced it with the "d
dimensions" and stated that d is large and that hydrodynamics is
"high-dimensional" where relevant.
----------------------------------------------------------------------

2. p1, "In quantum mechanics calculations, one always starts out by
 ... block-diagonal ..." Is symmetry reduction really the same thing as
 diagonalization? I don't see how. Is the point simply that one wants to
 choose coordinates that are appropriate for the problem?

RESPONSE: The text now clarifies this point. QM is linear, so operators
can be block diagonalized. Our world is nonlinear, and that's hell - no
matrix to diagonalize.
----------------------------------------------------------------------

3. Several times it is mentioned that "turbulence breaks all
 symmetries", and I do not understand what precisely this means. Is the
 point that, even though the equations may be equivariant, the specific
 solutions may not possess these same symmetries? This is of course true,
 but I am not familiar with the authors' terminology.

RESPONSE: The referee's interpretation that "turbulence breaks all
symmetries" means that "even though the equations may be equivariant,"
generic turbulent solutions "do not possess these symmetries" is correct.
We have modified the text in hope of making this more clear. We have also
added text to stress the fact that symmetric solutions are confined to
invariant subspaces, where dynamics is very different from the turbulent
regions of state space.
----------------------------------------------------------------------

4. Fig 1: It looks like the group orbit in (d) is a circle
 (1-dimensional), while in (c) it looks 3-dimensional. This should be
 made consistent.

RESPONSE: We have now redrawn figures for Fig 1, making sure that the
group orbit in (c) was a circle (pointing out that this is the case for
SO(2)). Added some color-coding for trajectories and group orbits and
expanded the caption in hope of making it clearer.
----------------------------------------------------------------------

5. Figure 5(a): I do not understand this diagram, and I wonder if
 something has been left out of the figure. Is a point here supposed to
 represent a group orbit? The only difference I see between (a) and (c)
 is that the dashed portion of the curve has been made solid. It would be
 good to denote the group orbit some other way, so that it is clearer
 what is going on.

RESPONSE: The group orbits in 5(a) are the 2-dimensional surfaces which
is the best we can do to represent an N-dimensional manifold through
x(0). Everything in 5(c) has a hat, meaning that the trajectory now lives
in (d-N)-dimensional reduced state space - group orbit manifolds have
been shrunk to points. We have added some text to the caption to clarify
this point.
----------------------------------------------------------------------

6. p9, I don't understand the difference between the "method of
 co-moving frames" and the "method of connections" (Fig 12). Are they the
 same? If I am understanding Fig 12 correctly, it looks like since there
 is no motion along the group tangent directions, this should be the same
 as having a co-moving frame.

RESPONSE: The two methods are the same when one considers a relative
equilibrium (a traveling wave with fixed phase velocity). For other types
of solutions, such as relative periodic orbits, one has to define a mean
phase velocity = (shift_p)/(period_p) to apply the method of co-moving
frames, while the method of connections is inherently local. The text now
clarifies this point.

---------------------------------------------------------------------
siminos/atlas/reviews/response1.1.txt
$Author: predrag $ $Date: 2012-07-22 11:22:08 -0400 (Sun, 22 Jul 2012) $
