SIADS MS#M103729
    Periodic eigendecomposition and its application to
    Kuramoto-Sivashinsky system,
    by Xiong Ding and Predrag Cvitanovi\'c

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Report of Referee 1
----------------------------------------------------------------------
    [all responses refer to DingCvit14-v3.pdf]
    [revised text highlighted in red in DingCvit14-v3.pdf]


In the submitted contribution, the authors propose an accurate
method to compute Floquet multipliers and vectors of periodic
orbits in spatially extended systems. The method is scientifically
sound, clearly explained, and compared with existing methods. The
authors also evaluate its computational cost and applied it to the
Kuramoto-Sivashinsky equation. Because the periodic orbits play
important roles in various respects for understanding dynamical
systems, the proposed method can make a good contribution to the
research field. Overall, the paper is well written, except for a
number of points that I remark in the following. Supposing these
comments are sufficiently taken into account (or the authors give
convincing counterarguments), I would recommend publication of the
manuscript.

1. Somehow the authors sporadically mention the inertial manifold,
entangled modes, etc, even in the abstract, though they are not
studied in the submitted paper. They even make claims on these
concepts ("it is a good indicator of existence of a finite
dimensional inertial manifold", "The 8 leading exponents correspond
to the entangled modes...") without showing any supporting data. I
appreciate this application as a motivation of the presented study,
but the authors should restrict the content of the paper to what
the paper really deals with.

    RESPONSE:

    Initially, we thought that materials on the study of effective 
    dimension of inertial manifold can effectively express our desire
    to compute Floquet vectors, but the feedback indicates that it is
    too much. So we get rid of the sentence about the inertial manifold
    research in the abstract, and also rewrite {Section 2, Paragraph 2}
    to emphasize our motivation of studying Floquet vectors of periodic
    orbits without too much exposition to the research on effective 
    dimension of inertial manifold. 

    Other places that are modified accordingly:	

    1) {Paragraph 1 on page 16} : avoid mentioning "inertial manifold". 
       Original sentence :
       "This feature is observed for all the other periodic orbits we have 
       experimented, and it is a good indicator of existence of a finite 
       dimensional inertial manifold."

    2) {Paragraph 1 in page 18} : remove "physical modes".
       Original sentence :
       "because they are usually decoupled from the physical modes"

    3) {Caption of Figure 3} : replace "entangled modes" with "exponents"
       
    4) {Caption of Table 1} : remove the sentence talking about "entangled 
       modes" and "isolated modes".
       Original sentence:
       "The 8 leading exponents correspond to the entangled modes: note the 
       sharp drop in the value of the 9 th and subsequent exponents, 
       corresponding to the isolated modes."

    Places that we think it is better to keep:

    1) {paragraph 2 in page 16} : We mention the experiments conducted on 
       covariant Lyapunov vectors and expect Floquet vectors may serve the
       same purpose and propose our future work.

    2) In the conclusion part for future work : we mention our goal 
       to determine the physical dimension of a turbulent Navier-Stokes
       flow.


2. The last paragraph of section 2.4 and figure 2 are
incomprehensible, at least at that point, until readers find much
clearer explanations in the subsequent sections. The authors should
explain what the figure represents and avoid using undefined
technical terms, especially if they wish to make the paper
physicist-friendly, as they suggest in the manuscript.

    RESPONSE:

    We replace Fig.2 with a new one which illustrates the 2 stages of 
    periodic Schur decomposition of three [6x6] matrices. Compared with
    the vague old one, this new figure is more straightforward and 
    labels 2 stages explicitly. Also, {Section 2.4, Paragraph 2} is 
    rewritten to avoid some technical details and the convergence 
    properties. Readers can obtain all details from the references
    cited in this paragraph.


3. Right after equation (3.3), the author describes that "$R_m$ is
quasi-upper triangular ... and the remaining $R_i$ ... are upper
triangular". Is this an assumption or a consequence of other
assumptions? If the latter is the case, what makes the step k=m
special? If it is an assumption, it seems to me that the iteration
method will not give the same series of $R_i$ as defined here, but
only the product of $R_i$ agrees, because the effect of rotation
for complex conjugate pairs will be distributed to all $m$ time
intervals. Anyhow it is not clear whether the statement is an
assumption or a consequence.

    RESPONSE:

    $R_m$ being quasi-upper triangular is an assumption without
    loss of generality.  One may think that simultaneous iteration 
    for $J^{(k)}$ will make $R_k$ quasi-upper triangular. Such a 
    concern is sensible because in equation (4.2) we absorb matrix 
    $D$ into $R^{(0)}$. However, this is only performed for $R^{(0)}$
    not for other $R^{(k)}$. So after one iteration, $Q_0$ rotates
    to $Q'_0$ and is rotated back to $Q_0$ intentionally, and all 
    other $Q_i$ do not change. This point is critical because the
    choice of quasi-upper triangular matrix in equation (3.3) should
    be consistent and not change for different $k$.

    We changed the sentences under equation (3.3) and (4.2) to 
    explain our choice of $R_m$. 

    If you think we are wrong, we can discuss again.
    

4. At the beginning of section 5.2, the authors state that the
eigenvectors of $R^{(k)}$ cannot be obtained at the same time by
the iteration method. This is misleading because one does not
compute those eigenvalues by using equation (3.5) nor by repeating
the whole iteration process for each $k$, but the results for all
$k$ are naturally obtained during the iteration process needed for
a single $k$. No additional task is required. A similar misleading
statement can be found at the bottom of p.13.

    RESPONSE:
    
    This is our severe mistake.  We made the following changes:	
    
    1) Add a few sentences at the end of the 1st paragraph of 
       section 5.1 to indicate how power iteration generates 
       eigenvectors of all $R^{(k)}$ simultaneously.

    2) Remove the first paragraph of section 5.2 which talks about 
       the drawbacks of iteration method.
    
    3) Remove the sentences talking about the drawbacks of 
       iteration method in the 3rd paragraph in {Section 6, Paragraph 3}.
       
    4) Delete the statement under formula (3.5) about the iteration method.
    

5. In section 6, when the authors evaluate computational cost of
each step of each method, they should refer to specific equations
and/or descriptions in the previous sections. Otherwise it is
ambiguous how the authors obtained the presented evaluations,
because there are too many different stages and methods.
    
    RESPONSE:
    
    Substantial changes have been made to section 6. We refer to 
    equations or figures when trying to obtain complexity expression. 
    Only high-lever processes are discussed and a lot details, 
    like Householder transformation and Givens rotation, are hidden. 
    The details are covered in any numerical linear algebra book, 
    and the reader can get them from the references provided in that 
    section. Also, we correct the complexity of GEPP from $O(mn^2)$ 
    in general to $O(mi^2)$ for the i-th eigenvalue. 
    

6. Major typos: First, "real part", located for example three lines
above equation (2.2), should be the modulus. The authors made the
same error a few times (while it is also used correctly at other
places), so they should check all the "real parts" that appear in
the manuscript. Secondly, at the beginning of section 2.2, the
indices used for the contracting directions (variables with
superscript "-") are inconsistent: if $V^-_i = U^-_s + U^-_{s-1} +
... + U^-_{s-i+1}$ as defined in the text, the authors should index
$\lambda^-_i$ so as to satisfy $\lambda^+_i = -\lambda^-_i =
\lambda_i$. Finally, I guess $v_i$ in section 4 should be replaced
with $e_i$ (anyhow $v_i$ is not defined in that section). There are
also not a few minor typos, such as "figure figure 1".

    RESPONSE:

    1) We correct the error about Floquet exponents in the caption of
       Table 1. But for other places, we think the usage of "real 
       part of Floquet exponents" is appropraite. 
       When written in exponential form,  Floquet multipliers are 
       $\Lambda_j = \exp(T \lambda_j) = \exp(T \mu_j + i\theta)$, 
       Small letter $\lambda_j$ is called Floquet exponent. 
       $\mu$ is the real 
       part of $\lambda_j$ and it determines the magnitude of 
       $\Lambda_j$. Maybe our phrasing is misleading, so the 3 lines
       above equation (2.2) are slightly changed. 
       We can discuss it if you have a different opinion.

   2) Yes, we made a mistake about the indices of forward/backward
      invariant subspaces of Oseledets matrices. It is corrected
      following the style in Ref.[26]. Also, we change the '+' 
      symbol to '\oplus' to emphasize that it is direct sum of 
      subspaces.

   3) Yes, we made a mistake about the symbol reserved for eigenvectors. 
      $v_i^{(k)}$ are eigenvectors of $R^{(k)}$, while $e_i^{(k)}$ are 
      eigenvectors of $J^{(k)}$. So, $v_i$ are all replaced by $e_i$ 
      in section 4.  
   
   4) Typos such as "figure figure 1" are corrected.


7. Reference: at some places Ginelli et al.'s paper [15] which
first presented the covariant vector method is missing and should
be cited: for example in p.1 and p.4 where this method is
introduced. In addition, citing the book [37] at the end of the
first paragraph of section 4 is bizarre, because this book was
published before Ginelli's method was invented.
	  
    RESPONSE:

    1) We add Ref[14] (indices of references in the new version
       are different from that in the old version) on page 1, 4
       and 5, all the places where we mention Gineelli et al.'s work.
   
    2) When we say "these two methods are equivalent", we are not 
       referring to simultaneous iteration and covariant Lyapunov 
       vector algorithm. Actually, we try to say "simultaneous 
       iteration is equivalent to periodic Schur decomposition 
       algorithm". We changed the phrasing at {Section 4, Paragraph 1}
       to make it clearer. 

----------------------------------------------------------------------

We would like to thank the referee for all the suggestions (point 1, 2, 3, 5)
which will improve the content of this manuscript, and also for pointing
out mistakes we made (point 4, 6, 7). All these comments are very 
insightful and useful. We sincerely appreciate his/her time for 
reading and correcting this manuscript.

